# Pattern Lab

The FEF styleguide is generated by [Pattern Lab](https://patternlab.io).

## Documentation

For documentation how to use Pattern Lab, please refer to the official [Pattern Lab documentation](https://patternlab.io/docs/index.html).

Here are just some quick remarks how we use Pattern Lab:

- All patterns can be found in `/source/_patterns`.
- A pattern must at least have a twig file in order to appear in the styleguide. Prefix a twig file name with a `_` to hide it from the styleguide but still be able to include the file in an other pattern. Example: `_teaser.twig`
- If you want to demonstrate various versions or states of a pattern, create a demo page. Prefix the file name of a demo page with `demo-`. Don't include a demo page in another pattern.
- **Styles** of a pattern must be included in one of the `/source/main.xyz.scss` files:
  - `main.global.scss`: patterns that will be used anywhere.
  - `main.article.scss`: patterns that will only be used in SRF articles.
  - `main.page.scss`: patterns that will only be used in SRF landingpages.
- Styles for the **Critical CSS** are defined in one of the following files:
  - `/assets/critical/c_article.scss`: Critical CSS for SRF articles
  - `/assets/critical/c_landingpage.scss`: Critical CSS for SRF landingpages`
- Some global css rules, variables, mixins etc. can be found in the top level of `/source/_patterns`, prefixed with an underscore, i.e. `_mixins.scss`, `_variables.scss`.
- **Javascript** files go into `/assets/js` and must be included/initialized in the `main.js` file
- **Images** are located in `/assets/img`

## Tips

- The "cogwheel" menu in the top right corner of Pattern Lab's menubar is often overlooked but contains some handy features:
  - "Find patterns": Search for patterns by their name
  - "Open in new Windeow": Display the pattern without the pattern lab website in a new window
  - "Show pattern info": Copy generated pattern HTML from this info window, see where a pattern is included and see the content of a patterns .md-file.



